macOS is significantly different from previous, "classic" versions of Mac OS. The system is based on the POSIX-compliant Darwin operating system, which is free software. Its core is XNU, which uses the Mach microkernel and standard BSD services. All Unix features on macOS are available through the console.

On top of this framework, Apple has developed many proprietary components such as Cocoa and Carbon, Quartz.

macOS is highly resilient, making it unlike its predecessor, Mac OS 9. [source unspecified 1866 days]

MacOS (like any UNIX system) uses preemptive multitasking and memory protection, allowing you to run multiple, isolated processes, each of which cannot interrupt or modify all others. The macOS architecture was influenced by OpenStep, which was conceived as a portable operating system (for example, NeXTSTEP was ported from the original 68k platform of the NeXT computer prior to Apple's acquisition of NeXTSTEP). Likewise, OpenStep has been ported to PowerPC as part of the Rhapsody project.

Most notably, the graphical interface has changed, which in macOS was called Aqua. The use of rounded corners, translucent elements and light stripes also influenced the appearance of the first iMac models. After the first version of Mac OS X was released, other developers also started using the Aqua interface. To prevent its design from being used on other platforms, Apple used the services of lawyers [10].

The basics of macOS are:

Open source subsystem - Darwin (Mach kernel and BSD toolkit).
Core Foundation programming environment (Carbon API, Cocoa API and Java API).
Aqua graphics environment (QuickTime, Quartz Extreme and OpenGL).
Core Image, Core Animation, CoreAudio and CoreData technologies.

//русский 
macOS значительно отличается от предыдущих, "классических" версий Mac OS. Система основана на совместимой с POSIX операционной системе Darwin, которая является свободным программным обеспечением. Его ядром является XNU, который использует микроядро Mach и стандартные сервисы BSD. Все функции Unix в macOS доступны через консоль.

В дополнение к этой структуре Apple разработала множество запатентованных компонентов, таких как Какао и углерод, Кварц.

macOS обладает высокой устойчивостью, что делает ее непохожей на свою предшественницу, Mac OS 9. [источник не указан 1866 дней]

macOS (как и любая система UNIX) использует упреждающую многозадачность и защиту памяти, позволяя запускать несколько изолированных процессов, каждый из которых не может прерывать или изменять все остальные. На архитектуру macOS повлиял OpenStep, который был задуман как портативная операционная система (например, NeXTSTEP был перенесен с оригинальной платформы 68k следующего компьютера до приобретения Apple NeXTSTEP). Аналогичным образом, OpenStep был перенесен на PowerPC в рамках проекта Rhapsody.

Наиболее заметно изменился графический интерфейс, который в macOS назывался Aqua. Использование закругленных углов, полупрозрачных элементов и светлых полос также повлияло на внешний вид первых моделей iMac. После выпуска первой версии Mac OS X другие разработчики также начали использовать интерфейс Aqua. Чтобы предотвратить использование его дизайна на других платформах, Apple воспользовалась услугами юристов [10].

Основы macOS заключаются в следующем:

Подсистема с открытым исходным кодом - Darwin (ядро Mach и инструментарий BSD).
Среда программирования Core Foundation (Carbon API, Cocoa API и Java API).
Графическая среда Aqua (QuickTime, Quartz Extreme и OpenGL).
Основное изображение, Основная анимация, технологии CoreAudio и CoreData.
